---
title: "First Stable Release - GRASS 5 Free Geographic Information System 5. September 2002"
date: 2002-05-15T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Bernhard Reiter/Markus Neteler/GRASS Development Team
---

PRESS RELEASE

5. September 2002

GRASS Development Team

### GRASS 5 Stable Release - Free Geographic Information System

Today the GRASS Development team led by Markus Neteler released the
first stable version (5.0.0) of the fifth generation of the well known
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS).

GRASS 5 is Free Software under GNU GPL, the sources of which can be
found at ITC-irst, Italy, on <http://grass.itc.it> and several mirrors
along with documentation and sample data.
In addition to traditional Unix platforms such as GNU/Linux, Solaris and
IRIX, experimental versions of GRASS 5 also run under Microsoft Windows
(R) using the Cygwin tools and Apple Macintosh OS-X (R), also known as
Darwin. It was also ported to handheld devices such as Compaq/iPAQ (R)
and SHARP/Zaurus (R).

This new version is the first major change in GRASS functionality since
GRASS 4 was released several years ago.  Notable improvements include
support for floating point and null values.  Users can opt to use a new
windowing interface based on Tcl/Tk on those platforms supporting X
Window.

A successful series of beta and pre-releases of GRASS 5 over the last
two years has shown the software sufficiently stable to justify a wider
audience release in the view of developers and users alike.

"This release was long in coming, because the GRASS source code base is
huge." explains the team coordinator Markus Neteler. "In the last few
years GRASS also completely changed the development model adopting an
open volunteer driven process and fully going the Free Software way."

"This is a milestone release." reveals Professor Helena Mitasova of
North Carolina State University. "Markus Neteler has successfully
coordinated many developers to undertake this huge endeavor." Professor
Mitasova views GRASS 5.0 as a unique geospatial research environment
which encourages experiments and innovation.

GRASS development in the last years has been supported by many people
and organisations. Apart from the organisations already mentioned thanks
from the GRASS community goes to Baylor University, USA which has long
been associated with supporting GRASS (also running a mirror site
[http://www3.baylor.edu/~grass/](http://www3.baylor.edu/%7Egrass/)) and
Intevation GmbH, Germany which hosts development resources like the CVS
respository and bugtracker.

#### References

GRASS (Geographic Resources Analysis and Support System) web sites with
software download:

 <http://grass.itc.it/>
 <http://www3.baylor.edu/grass/>
 <http://grass.ibiblio.org/>

GNU Project:  <http://www.gnu.org/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

&copy; 1999-2002 GRASS Development Team
