---
title: "GRASS GIS 6.4.1 released"
date: 2011-04-12T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

![GRASS GIS](/images/logos/historical_logos/grasslogo_vector_small.png)**The GRASS Development Team announces**

GRASS GIS 6.4.1 released 12 April 2011
--------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce that a new stable version of [GRASS GIS
6.4.1](http://grass.osgeo.org) has been released. This release fixes
some bugs discovered in the 6.4.0 source code and a few new features
(over 560 updates to the source code with respect to 6.4.0 have been
added). As a stable release 6.4 will enjoy long-term support.

GRASS 6.4 brings a number of exciting enhancements to the GIS. Our
new *wxPython graphical user interface* (wxGUI) is debuted, Python is
now a fully supported scripting language, and for the first time
since its inception with a port from the VAX 11/780 in 1983, GRASS
runs natively also on a non-UNIX based platform: MS-Windows.

### What's new in GRASS 6.4.1

A detailed description of changes can be found in the [GRASS 6.4.1
Release News](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/Release/6.4.1-News)
page.

For a comprehensive list of changes see the [6.4
ChangeLog](http://grass.osgeo.org/grass64/source/ChangeLog_6.4.1.gz)
file.

### Software download and CDROM/DVD

- <http://grass.osgeo.org/download/>
- numerous [mirror sites](http://grass.osgeo.org/mirrors.php)
- [GRASS on CDROM/DVD](http://grass.osgeo.org/download/cdrom.php)

### About GRASS GIS

The *Geographic Resources Analysis Support System*, commonly referred
to as GRASS, is a Geographic Information System (GIS) providing
powerful raster, vector, and geospatial processing engines in a
single integrated software suite. GRASS includes tools for spatial
modeling, visualization of raster and vector data, management and
analysis of geospatial data, and the processing of satellite and
aerial imagery. It also provides the capability to produce
sophisticated presentation graphics and hardcopy maps. GRASS has now
been translated into twenty languages and supports a huge array of
data formats.

GRASS is a founding member of [The Open Source Geospatial
Foundation](http://www.osgeo.org) (OSGeo), a non-profit legal entity
which has enjoyed extraordinary growth. We expect that this formal
infrastructure will guarantee that the GRASS community will be well
supported and vibrant far into the future.

GRASS is currently used around the world in academic and commercial
settings as well as by many governmental agencies and environmental
consulting companies. It runs on a variety of popular hardware
platforms and is Free open-source software released under the terms
of the [GNU General Public
License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html).

The GRASS software including over 400 built-in analysis modules and
100 community supplied add-on modules and toolboxes can be downloaded
for free from the main GRASS website at <http://grass.osgeo.org>, or
from many local mirrors worldwide. In addition to the extensive
documentation which comes with the software, our [Wiki help
system](http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki) contains a wealth of user
supplied tips and tricks, tutorials, and guides.

Users are encouraged to study, customize, extend, improve, and (if
necessary) diagnose and modify the inner workings of any part of the
program. We believe that scientific progress depends on the
reproducibility of results, which in turn depends on the unhindered
ability of the user to know, evaluate, double-check, and learn from
all algorithms and methodologies used in the process of their work.

### Screenshots

- [Screenshots](http://grass.osgeo.org/screenshots/index.php) of
GRASS in action

### Platforms supported by GRASS

GNU/Linux, Mac OS X/Darwin, Microsoft Windows (native using MinGW or
with full UNIX support via Cygwin), Sun Solaris (SPARC/Intel),
Silicon Graphics Irix, HP-UX, DEC-Alpha, AIX, the BSD family,
iPAQ/Linux and other UNIX compliant platforms. GRASS runs on both 32
and 64 bit systems with large data file (\>2GB) support for most key
modules.

The new source code is available now along with selected binary
packages.

For details on GRASS software capabilities please refer to:
<http://grass.osgeo.org/intro/general.php>, and the [Wiki
collaborative help system](http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki).

### Documentation and Support

For a complete list of commands available in GRASS 6.4.1 see the
[online manuals](http://grass.osgeo.org/grass64/manuals/html64_user/)
and the [GRASS 6.4 module
list](http://grass.osgeo.org/gdp/grassmanuals/grass64_module_list.pdf).

*We are always looking for testers, code developers, and technical
writers to [help us](http://grass.osgeo.org/devel/index.php) maintain
and accelerate the development cycle.* The GRASS GIS project is
developed under the terms of the [GNU General Public
License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html) (the GPL) [in the
open](http://grass.osgeo.org/devel/index.php) by
[volunteers](http://grass.osgeo.org/community/index.php) the [world
over](http://mapserver.gdf-hannover.de/grassusers/map.phtml). GRASS
differs from many other GIS software packages used in the
professional world in that it is developed and distributed by users
for users, mostly on a volunteer basis, in the open, and is given
away for free. Emphasis is placed on interoperability and unlimited
access to data as well as on software flexibility and evolution rate.

Release history:

- [GRASS GIS 6.4.1RC1](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/Release/6.4.1RC1-News)
released 3 Jan 2011
- [GRASS GIS 6.4.1RC2](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/Release/6.4.1RC2-News)
released 17 Mar 2011
- **GRASS GIS 6.4.1 released 12 April 2011** (see also [technical
announcement](http://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/Release/6.4.1-News))


-------------------------------------------------------------------

[GRASS Development Team](http://grass.osgeo.org/community/team.php)
