---
title: "GRASS GIS Community Sprint 2012 - Great achievements!"
date: 2012-06-15T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

![GRASS GIS](/images/logos/historical_logos/grasslogo_vector_small.png)

*Press release*

### GRASS GIS Community Sprint 2012 in Prague - Great achievements!

[![Community sprint
prague2012](./d64bae91091eda6a7532ebec06aa70893b79e1f8.shtml){width="
640"
height="195"}](http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/GRASS_Community_Sprint_Pra
gue_2012){.image}

The GRASS Community is pleased to announce the results of the second
GRASS Community Sprint, that took place at the [Faculty of Civil
Engineering](http://www.fsv.cvut.cz/index.php.en) - [Czech Technical
University in Prague](http://www.cvut.cz/en?set_language=en), from 23
to 28 May, 2012.

Following the [FOSS4G-CEE & Geoinformatics](http://foss4g-cee.org/)
conference, the Community Sprint has been an exciting event, thanks
to both the perfect organization by the hosting institution, which
provided location and technical support, and the sponsors, which
kindly financed the major part of the developer's needs during the
event.\
In particular, Martin Landa and professor Aleš Čepek are gratefully
acknowledged for the organization, and the sponsors
[OSGeo](http://www.osgeo.org) (Open Source Geospatial Foundation,
USA), [GFOSS.it](http://www.GFOSS.it) (Associazione Italiana per
l\'Informazione Geografica Libera, Italy), [FOSSGIS
e.V.](http://www.fossgis.de) (German-language OSGeo local chapter),
and [Sylla-consult](http://sylla-consult.de/en/) (Frankfurt, Germany)
for their [sponsoring](http://grass.osgeo.org/donation.php) of the
event.\
The participants came from Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Poland,
Greece, and the United States, including several long-term core
developers, new developers, students, researchers, and even
newcomers.

The work has been focused on wxGUI bugfixing, GRASS 7 time series and
4D data management (R-tree search structures extended to n
dimensions, new time series management improved), translations,
discussions about the planned toolbox concept, implementation of a
new module (v.in.geopaparazzi) and lots of bughunting, testing, and
bugfixing. For interoperability, the new QGIS-Sextante-GRASS
interface was completely overhault and updated. The upcoming improved
GRASS Python API was discussed in detail.\
Developers also had discussions on broad topics like GRASS GIS usage
mobile devices, creation of a visual guide to GRASS GIS usage, the
planned renewal of the GRASS Project Steering Committee (PSC), and
adopting a CMS for a new Web site.\
Among the participants there were two of the three Google Summer of
Code students, and several mentors and co-mentors. Hence this
Community Sprint was a great occasion for the students to start
working on their projects, while receiving live guidance from their
mentors and from the attending experienced developers. As in the
previous year, the sprint welcomed also the integration with other
software, like QGIS, Sextante and JGrass, thanks to the presence of
some main developers of these respective programs who solved special
problems in the \"integration\" topic. For more information, please
visit these pages:

- <http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/Talk:GRASS_Community_Sprint_Prague_2
012>
- <http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/GRASS_Community_Sprint_Prague_2012>

### About GRASS GIS

The Geographic Resources Analysis Support System, commonly referred
to as GRASS, is an Open Source Geographic Information System (GIS)
providing powerful raster, vector, and geospatial processing engines
in a single integrated software suite. GRASS includes tools for
spatial modeling, visualization of raster and vector data, management
and analysis of geospatial data, and the processing of satellite and
aerial imagery. It also provides the capability to produce
sophisticated presentation graphics and hardcopy maps. GRASS has now
been translated into twenty languages and supports a huge array of
data formats. It is distributed under the terms of the GNU General
Public License (GPL).

-------------------------------------------------------------------

[GRASS Development Team](http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/Team), June 2012
