---
title: "Recap GRASS GIS Community Sprint at FOSS4G 2016"
date: 2016-09-06T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

### Recap: GRASS GIS Community Sprint at FOSS4G 2016

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Thoughts and impressions from the GRASS GIS Community Sprint at FOSS4G
2016, Bonn**

Last week we had the pleasure to attend the International FOSS4G 2016
Conference in Bonn. But not only that\... before and after the
conference, two \"Code Sprints\" took place.

![GRASS GIS Community sprint at FOSS4G 2016,
Bonn](/images/news/grassgis_community_sprint_2016.jpg)

What is a **\"Code Sprint\"**? Basically, it is a group of free and open
source developers who (fueled with beer, coffee and
snacks/pizza/sandwiches) gather to develop new stuff, enhance existing
tools, perform bug fixing, translate and write documentation, discuss
and decide the way to go with the software they contribute to
(essentially the software they love we would say, it all comes to that).
Anyway, in this context, also GRASS GIS developers gathered in what we
usually call the **\"Community Sprints\"**, since it's not only a
meeting of developers but also of users, and other contributors -
everybody is welcome and their help appreciated.

So, what did we do at these two sprints?

Well, first of all, **we had a great time!** It is always a great joy to
meet again (or in some cases even for the first time) with those people
that use to answer your emails in the mailing list(s), fix or enhance
modules, help in so many ways\... One feels at home :-)

But we also worked a lot! The most important is that **the last GRASS
GIS 6 version** was released on Sunday at 1:00 am or so
[\[1\]](../../../58/15/GRASS-GIS-6-4-6-released/index.html). Also
several other issues were discussed and addressed, i.e.: the next minor
release of 7.0.5 - planned for mid of September, and the new major
release of GRASS GIS 7.2.0, which is planned for 1st of October 2016.
Furthermore, the styling of a new Web site for the GRASS GIS project was
lively discussed. Moreover, the participants fixed a number of bugs,
backported numerous features, cleaned outdated tickets, and added some
new features. Even a new add-on was developed in these days. Eventually
also some tutorials explaining how to work with time series and
Sentinel-2 satellite data got written up. Last but not least, a member
of the community provided a new
[flyer](https://trac.osgeo.org/grass/browser/grass-promo/grassflyer/flyer_2016)
for GRASS GIS. Please help us translating, improving and distributing
it!

\
Oh! And by Sunday evening, also the PSC election 2016 time was over, and
we got a **new PSC** (See results
[here](https://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/PSC/Election2016))!
Congratulations!!! For the first time, users that have contributed to
GRASS GIS project were formally invited to vote\... Isn\'t that great?
Therefore, Community Sprints, **Community Spirit** ;-)

**Join and enjoy GRASS GIS!**

 For details, see also our [related Wiki
page](https://grasswiki.osgeo.org/wiki/Talk:GRASS_Community_Sprint_Bonn_2016)

 

**About GRASS GIS**

The Geographic Resources Analysis Support System
([http://grass.osgeo.org/)](/index.html), commonly referred
to as GRASS GIS, is an Open Source Geographic Information System
providing powerful raster, vector and geospatial processing capabilities
in a single integrated software suite. GRASS GIS includes tools for
spatial modeling, visualization of raster and vector data, management
and analysis of geospatial data, and the processing of satellite and
aerial imagery. It also provides the capability to produce sophisticated
presentation graphics and hardcopy maps. GRASS GIS has been translated
into about twenty languages and supports a huge array of data formats.
It can be used either as a stand-alone application or as backend for
other software packages such as QGIS and R geostatistics. It is
distributed freely under the terms of the GNU General Public License
(GPL). GRASS GIS is a founding member of the Open Source Geospatial
Foundation (OSGeo).

*The GRASS Development Team, September 2016*

