---
title: "35 years of GRASS GIS development"
date: 2018-07-29T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

### 35 years of GRASS GIS development

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Celebrating 35 years of GRASS GIS!**

Today marks 35 years of GRASS GIS development - with [frequent
releases](/download/software/index.html) the project keeps
pushing the limits in terms of geospatial data processing quality and
performance.

GRASS (Geographic Resources Analysis Support System) is a **free and
open source Geographic Information System** (GIS) software suite used
for geospatial data management and analysis, image processing, graphics
and map production, spatial modeling, and 3D visualization. Since the
major GRASS GIS 7 version, it also comes with a feature rich engine for
**space-time cubes** useful for time series processing of **Landsat and
Copernicus Sentinel satellite data** and more. GRASS GIS can be either
used as a desktop application or as a backend for other software
packages such as **QGIS** and **R**. Furthermore, it is frequently used
on **HPC and cloud** infrastructures for massive parallelized data
processing.

![35 YEARS OF GRASS GIS!](/images/gallery/marketing/grass_35years.png)

### Brief history

In 1982, under the direction of Bill Goran at the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers Construction Engineering Research Laboratory (CERL), two GIS
development efforts were undertaken. First, Lloyd Van Warren, a
University of Illinois engineering student, began development on a new
computer program that allowed analysis of mapped data.  Second, Jim
Westervelt (CERL) developed a GIS package called \"*LAGRID -- the
Landscape Architecture Gridcell analysis system*\" as his master's
thesis. Thirty five years ago, on 29 July 1983, the user manual for this
new system titled \"*GIS Version 1 Reference Manua*l\" was first
published by J. Westervelt and M. O\'Shea. With the technical guidance
of Michael Shapiro (CERL), the software continued its development at the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Construction Engineering Research
Laboratory (USA/CERL) in Champaign, Illinois; and after further
expansion version 1.0 was released in 1985 under the name **Geographic
Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS)**. The GRASS GIS community was
established the same year with the first annual user meeting and the
launch of GRASSnet, one of the internet's early mailing lists. The user
community expanded to a larger audience in 1991 with the \"Grasshopper\"
mailing list and the introduction of the World Wide Web. The users\' and
programmers\' mailing lists archives for these early years are still
available [online](https://lists.osgeo.org/pipermail/grass-user/).\
In the mid 1990s the development transferred from USA/CERL to The Open
GRASS Consortium (a group who would later generalize to become today's
Open Geospatial Consortium \-- the
[OGC](https://www.opengeospatial.org/)). The project coordination
eventually shifted to the **international development team** made up of
governmental and academic researchers and university scientists.
Reflecting this shift to a project run by the users, for the users, in
1999 GRASS GIS was released under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL). A detailed history of GRASS GIS can be found at
[https://grass.osgeo.org/history/](/history/index.html).

### Where to next?

The development on GRASS GIS continues with more energy and interest
than ever. Parallel to the **long-term maintenance** of the GRASS 7.4
stable series, effort is well underway on the [new upcoming cutting-edge
7.6 release](https://trac.osgeo.org/grass/wiki/Grass7/NewFeatures76),
which will bring many new features, enhancements, and cleanups. As in
the past, the GRASS GIS community is open to any contribution, be it in
the form of [programming, documentation,
testing](/get-involved/index.html), and [financial
sponsorship](/donations/index.html). Please [contact
us](/home/contact-us/index.html)!

**About GRASS GIS**

The Geographic Resources Analysis Support System
([https://grass.osgeo.org/](/)), commonly referred
to as GRASS GIS, is an Open Source Geographic Information System
providing powerful raster, vector and geospatial processing capabilities
in a single integrated software suite. GRASS GIS includes tools for
spatial modeling, visualization of raster and vector data, management
and analysis of geospatial data, and the processing of satellite and
aerial imagery. It also provides the capability to produce sophisticated
presentation graphics and hardcopy maps. GRASS GIS has been translated
into about twenty languages and supports a huge array of data formats.
It can be used either as a stand-alone application or as backend for
other software packages such as QGIS and R geostatistics. It is
distributed freely under the terms of the GNU General Public License
(GPL). GRASS GIS is a founding member of the Open Source Geospatial
Foundation (OSGeo).

*The GRASS Development Team, July 2018*

