---
title: "GRASS GIS as described by a Google-Code-In student"
date: 2018-01-17T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

### GRASS GIS as described by a Google Code-In student

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**The Google Code-In contest is almost over. Today, January 17th, was
the last day in which students could submit their work for revision.
Last night we got one of the last tasks submissions for GRASS GIS within
the contest. We had asked the students to write a short blog entry about
GRASS GIS. Surprisingly, we got a bit more than that! Check this very
nice text by Taylor Fang. Thanks tfang! And welcome!**

**GRASS GIS**, the Geographic Resources Analysis Support System,
Geographic Information System, commonly referred to as GRASS, is a free
and open source software suite. It's a founding member of the Open
Source Geospatial Foundation, known as **OSGeo**. GRASS has been under
continuous development since 1982, and can be used for geospatial data
management, analysis, processing, graphics, modeling, and visualization.
It is used in academic, commercial, government, and environmental
settings around the world.

GRASS runs on several operating systems, including OS X and Windows.
Users can interface with the software modules and other capabilities
through a graphical user interface (GUI), provided by the software. The
GRASS distribution includes many core modules, with add-ons created by
users offered on its website.

As part of **Google Code-In 2017-2018**, I worked with GRASS and OSGeo
mentors to complete several "tasks". After downloading the North
Carolina dataset and the GRASS program, I created a vector map and
entered my name on the "console" tab of the program. This is shown
below, with the map display on the right and the layer manager on the
left (with the tabs at the bottom for layers, console, modules, data and
Python).

[]{.image}

After exploring some of the features of GRASS, I designed a splash
screen for the GUI start-up, using the GRASS logo on the GRASS wiki and
open-source fonts. This is shown below:

[]{.image}

Through these processes, I learned about some of the map-making
capabilities that GRASS offers, including the ability to choose the map
display and format. These include vector network analysis, and point
cloud data. Point cloud data is a representation of 3D surfaces
developed from laser scanning, also known as Light Detection and Ranging
(LiDAR). LiDAR is often used in self-driving car sensors, according to
MIT Technology Review. GRASS GIS supports basic and advanced lidar data
processing and analysis. These are some of the many aspects and
capabilities of GRASS, ***which is continually being updated and
improved***.

