---
title: "GRASS GIS Community Sprint 2011 - A Success!"
date: 2011-05-25T11:36:11+01:00
layout: "news"
author: Admin
---

![GRASS GIS](/images/logos/historical_logos/grasslogo_vector_small.png)

*Press release*

\[[IT](2019_09_15_community_sprint_prague2011_it.html) -
[PL](2019_09_15_community_sprint_prague2011_pl.html)\]

### GRASS GIS Community Sprint 2011 in Prague - A Success!

The GRASS Community is pleased to announce the results of the first
GRASS Community Sprint, that took place at the Faculty of Civil
Engineering - Czech Technical University in Prague, from 20 to 25
May, 2011.

The Community Sprint has been a successful event, thanks to both the
perfect organization by the hosting structure, which provided
location and technical supervision, and the sponsors, which kindly
financed the greater part of the developer's needs during the
event.\
In particular, Martin Landa and professor Aleš Čepek are gratefully
acknowledged for the organization, and the sponsors
[GFOSS.it](http://www.GFOSS.it) (Associazione Italiana per
l\'Informazione Geografica Libera, Italy), [R3
GIS](http://www.r3-gis.it) (Merano, Italy), [FOSSGIS
e.V.](http://www.fossgis.de) (German-language OSGeo local chapter),
and [Sylla-consult](http://sylla-consult.de/en/) (Frankfurt, Germany)
for their [sponsoring](http://grass.osgeo.org/donation.php) of the
event.\
The participants came from Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, Poland,
and the United States, including several long-term core developers,
new developers, students, researchers, and even newcomers.

The work has been focused on wxGUI improvements, GRASS7 internals
(improved vector topology engine, library access from other
programs), translations, implementation of new modules (r.threshold,
v.pack, v.unpack) and bugfixing. Developers also had discussions on
broad topics like GRASS GIS usage in cloud and cluster computing, Web
processing services, toolboxes, integration of time dimension to make
GRASS a true temporal GIS, and the design of a comprehensive test
suite.\
Among the participants there were three of the four Google Summer of
Code students, two mentors, several co-mentors and the OSGeo GSoC
administrator. Students started working on their projects, and
received live guidance from their mentors and from the attending
experienced developers. The sprint welcomed also the integration with
other software, like QGIS and JGrass, thanks to the presence of some
main developers of these respective programs who showed interest in
the \"integration\" topic. For more information, please visit these
pages:

- <http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/Talk:GRASS_Community_Sprint_Prague_2
011>
- <http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/GRASS_Community_Sprint_Prague_2011>

### About GRASS GIS

The Geographic Resources Analysis Support System, commonly referred
to as GRASS, is an Open Source Geographic Information System (GIS)
providing powerful raster, vector, and geospatial processing engines
in a single integrated software suite. GRASS includes tools for
spatial modeling, visualization of raster and vector data, management
and analysis of geospatial data, and the processing of satellite and
aerial imagery. It also provides the capability to produce
sophisticated presentation graphics and hardcopy maps. GRASS has now
been translated into twenty languages and supports a huge array of
data formats. It is distributed under the terms of the GNU General
Public License (GPL).

-------------------------------------------------------------------

[GRASS Development Team](http://grass.osgeo.org/wiki/Team)
